Welcome to a file structure and naming in this video.
You'll understand that there is no one way of setting up your filing system.
That's certainly true and it will often depend on the project itself.
Now if you have a personal style of filing and you don't like mine use yours.
That's absolutely fine.
And of course remember to talk with your team.
You will form guidelines based from your own needs and experience moving forward.
Now there is some rigidity in a team environment.
You will have guidelines so you can discuss with colleagues what you actually need for the particular
project you're working on.
It can change from project to project as some software might expect certain things to be stored and
named in a certain way.
So if you got those constraints it's best set up from the very start to match what other software might
be expecting.
Now moving on to naming.
Very important in a team or review just working yourself with a large project is very critical that
you can find your assets.
Materials textures are whatever you've been creating.
So naming files well will help you and others find them and know what they are by just reading the name.
There are some naming conventions that we will use in this section and will get to those when we need
to.
So int in app blender itself in the actual program not the file system.
We're going to be making a much more complex scenes than we've previously made.
Organize it as you go not afterwards when it's complete mess.
Organize it as you go so it never becomes a complete mess and use descriptive names.
Q And Kubes 0 0 1 etc. is not helpful to anyone especially not yourself.
It's really easy to get in a pickle when you're focussed on the modelling.
You look over at your outliner and you just hang your head in shame and despair because there's no way
you can work out what anything is anymore.
So lets us have a quick look how I've got my system set up.
So I am of course on a Mac here and I have my home directory Michael bridges and within that itself
I have a folder called repo's.
Now the reason why I have a folder called repose is that's where the repository is going to be so we
can actually start using sorcery.
Got it all set up now but there's no point in what we can't do anything in it yet until we have made
our file system.
So let's go ahead and as you can see here in the repo's I've got the various sections of the course
because I use the VCR s to manage the actual lectures themselves and mine will end up looking slightly
different from yours as we hop in and out of source tree.
But don't worry about that.
In fact everybody's going to look completely different depending on how you set things up.
So if I go into the game asset PAC now we can see I've got a read me far in there that's just a description
the DOT m.d. means mark down it could just as easily be a text file and I've created two folders here
an example one sound for instance if you will working by adding sound into your scene as well.
But the main one here for us is an assets folder and inside there I've got meshes and textures those
are the two main ones that we're going to need to move forward and I've created a just a short cut here
and we'll go into more details of what all those hieroglyphics there mean in terms of the texture naming
conventions and then the meshes themselves what that is going to mean as well.
So there's lots of things that you can do in terms of filing.
You could store all of your stuff in one particular folder for one particular model and group everything
by that particular model itself.
I am going to go for a more of a flatter approach.
I would recommend not going more than three levels deep because then it becomes a bit unwieldy.
And if you've got to go three level just for one item that's going to be time consuming.
And again if you've named your files appropriately You should also be able to use your built in search
function in order to find items especially once it gets a much much busier in our file system.
It's Challenge time.
I'd like you to set up your working Directorate.
So place your reference material that you've gathered here create your necessary folders that you require.
Remember there isn't a right way of doing this.
And of course be prepared to reorganize later.
If you find it isn't quite working out.
Just bear in mind when you start moving things you break links.
So is important that we don't break too many links.
If you need to reorganize later.
I'd love to see how you guys have set up your working Directorate.
Are you going for a similar method of I am or have you got for a completely different method.
Please share your work in the discussions.
This will be the end of this lecture and what can I ask you to pause and go away.
Just go ahead and go do that and I will see you guys in the next lecture.